Introduction
============

Installation
------------

For a quick and up-to-date installation, please go to
`the github page for FRUITS <https://github.com/alienkrieg/tsclassification>`_
and clone the repository. Then install using the ``setuptools`` package by
executing the following command in the cloned folder.::

	python setup.py install

What is FRUITS?
---------------

**FRUITS** (**F**\ eature Ext\ **R**\ action **U**\ sing **IT**\ erated **S**\ ums) is a
python package and a tool for machine learning. It is designed for feature extraction from multidimensional
time series data. These calculated features can then used for a classification task.

Structure
---------

The main class of the package is ``fruits.Fruit``. It functions like a
pipeline that goes trough three steps in order to get the wanted features.
The input of the pipeline should be the time series dataset in form of a three dimensional numpy array.
The following three steps will be processed by the pipeline one-after-another.

Data preparation / preprocessing
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
So called data preparateurs objects are used to preprocess the data.
This is an optional step.

Calculation of Iterated Sums
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Words specify which Iterated Sums should be calculated.
For example: ::

	<[11], ISS(X)>=numpy.cumsum([x^2 for x in X])

is the result of::

	fruits.core.ISS(X, [fruits.iterators.SimpleWord("[11]")])

Feature Sieving:
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
So called feature sieves have to be specified in order to extract the actual
results of this pipeline from the results of the previous steps.
The total number of features per time series is: ::

	[number of sieves] * [number of words]

Simple Example
--------------

The following code block shows a simple example on how to use **FRUITS**.

.. code-block:: python

	# think of a 3 dimensional time series dataset
	X_train, y_train, X_test, y_test = ...

	# create a Fruit object
	myfruit = fruits.Fruit("myfruit - Fruit class example")

	# add a DataPreparateur to it by using predefined ones from fruits.preparation
	myfruit.add(fruits.preparation.INC(zero_padding=True))

	# generate simple words
	simple_words = fruits.core.generation.simplewords_by_degree(2, 1, 1)
	# simple_words is now a list of words in the extended alphabet generated by {1,2,3}:
	# [1], [2], [3], [11], [22], [33], [12], [13], [23]

	# add the words to the class instance
	myfruit.add(simple_words)

	# choose from a variety of feature sieves in fruits.sieving
	myfruit.add(fruits.sieving.PPV(quantile=0.5, constant=False))
	myfruit.add(fruits.sieving.MAX)

	# fit the object to the data
	myfruit.fit(X_train)
	# get features for the training data
	X_train_features = myfruit.transform(X_train)
	# get features for the testing data
	X_test_features = myfruit.transform(X_test)
